[singing voice] Aniplex.
[tense music]
[grunts]
♪♪ ♪♪
How could you?
Why would you do such a thing?
Do you remember
what you asked me once?
Well, I do.
You asked if I had any pride
as a hero.
[shudders]
[Archer] The answer of course
is no.
In fact,
all I have left
are foolish regrets.
The thing is, Saber...
It was a mistake to follow
on the hero's path.
[gasps]
[shudders]
Stand down,
King of Knights.
I warn you.
[Archer] If you try
to fight without a master,
you'll disappear.
After all,
Shirou Emiya
is no longer qualified
to be a master.
Helping him will not
get you any closer
to your wish.
[gasps]
I promise to protect him‐‐
to be his sword in battle.
And no matter what happens,
I will honor my promise.
[Archer] I see.
[electric sparking]
So be it.
[Aimer's "Brave Shine"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Aimer singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Brave shine ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Stay the night ♪♪
♪♪ You save my life ♪♪
[singing in Japanese]
♪♪ ♪♪
♪♪ Your brave shine ♪♪
[groans]
[blades clanging]
[grunts]
[grunting]
[breathing heavily]
[winces]
[groans]
[both grunting]
[Saber gasping]
[breathing heavily]
Now go,
you and your false master,
before I change my mind.
[Shirou shouting]
Well, well.
I honestly expected you
to cower a while longer.
Just shut up!
You're fighting
the wrong person!
‐ [Archer grunts]
‐ [groans]
[gasps]
[Shirou groaning]
[Archer] A faithful copy
will do the trick.
However, your body can't.
Not with the amount
of magic you would need.
[groaning]
[high‐pitched ringing]
[Archer] Using magic beyond
your abilities
will destroy you.
[wincing]
[Archer] Tell me something.
Are you truly so foolish
that you actually thought
you could win?
That if you relentlessly pursued
your goal,
you'd eventually become
the man you hope to be?
[groans]
[shouts]
[blades clanging]
Oh, Archer.
[grunts]
[grunting]
[glass shattering]
[Shirou gasping]
You see?
This is Shirou Emiya's limit.
What a fitting end
for someone so stubbornly blind
to the impossible.
‐ [Rin] Hear me!
‐ [both gasping]
‐ Huh?
‐ [Rin] My will creates
your body
and your sword carves
my destiny.
If you heed the Grail's call
and submit yourself to my will
and reason...
[magical humming]
[gasps]
[grunts]
[blades clang]
[sparking]
[grunts]
[Rin] Then answer me,
and hearing your answer,
I will entrust my fate
to your sword!
I accept on my honor
as a Saber,
and I take you as my master,
Rin!
[whooshing]
[glass shattering]
What now, Saber?
Aligning yourself with Rin
renders your pact
with Shirou Emiya
officially null and void.
[Saber] Weren't you listening,
Archer?
My pledge to Shirou is unbroken.
The only question
that remains...
Is what you intend to do now.
You cannot defeat me as I am.
[scoffs]
I liked you better
when your mana was depleted.
Its restoration
has made you cocky.
[both grunting]
[grunting]
[gasps]
‐ [shouts]
‐ [Archer grunts]
[Saber] It is finished, Archer.
You were concerned about
my condition earlier.
But now the tables have turned.
There is nothing left
to anchor you to this world.
Nothing to supply you with mana.
So what can you do?
[scoffs]
As I'm sure you well know,
the Archer class has the ability
of independent action.
[Archer] I believe
I can last two days or so
without a master.
And that's all the time I need
to put that boy in the ground.
Come now.
I thought you
had moved past that.
[Saber] Are you saying
Shirou's death
was your wish all along,
and not the Grail?
If that's true,
your wish was a mistake, Archer.
[Archer scoffs]
‐ A mistake, you say?
‐ [gasps]
You took the words right out
of my mouth.
How long will you cling
to your own mistaken wish?
[Archer] You did leave a legacy,
however.
You should be proud
of all you accomplished despite
your limitations.
[rain pattering]
I am an archer.
I was never meant
to fight using swords.
But I'll admit...
that my own bow is just
as much of a forgery.
‐ [Saber gasps]
‐ I will show you
my true nature.
‐ [both gasping]
‐ [Archer] It's the least I
can do to repay you
for what you've done.
I am the bone of my sword.
Stop this, Archer!
I have no wish to fight!
Unknown to death
nor known to life.
[Archer] Saber,
someday you will meet someone
who will set you free.
But I have a singular purpose,
and that is the death
of Shirou Emiya.
This world will let no one stand
between me and my task.
Not even you.
Unlimited...
Blade Works!
[gasping]
[tense music]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Rin] A reality marble?
A forbidden spell that manifests
the caster's inner world
to encroach on the real one.
Which means you aren't
a swordsman
or a bowman,
are you?
[Archer] No.
In life,
before I became a heroic spirit,
I was a mage myself.
Your Noble Phantasm,
what is it, Archer?
[scoffs]
I possess no sword,
neither holy nor demonic.
The world that you see
is all that I have.
[Archer] If a Noble Phantasm
is the symbol
of one's heroic spirit,
this reality marble is mine.
One look at a weapon
and a reproduction
is instantly created here.
That is my ability.
My power as a heroic spirit.
I see.
Then are you telling me
that this barren wasteland
is where you ended up in life?
[scoffs]
Straight to the point.
Would you care to test it out?
I'd be happy to replicate
that holy sword of yours.
[Saber] My holy sword?
Yes, it would certainly result
in my demise,
but I can make
a faithful approximation.
One that would kill you, too.
[Archer] But I wonder,
could any of the humans
in the vicinity survive
a clash between two holy swords?
Son of a...
Dodge, if you wish,
but doing so would be fatal
for the person behind you.
[both grunting]
Shirou!
[Shirou] If what I've learned
so far about the rules
of copying is true,
this might actually do it.
Trace...
On!
[shattering]
Make them better.
Faster.
Stronger!
I can see it‐‐
the structure of these swords.
Don't screw with me,
you bastard!
[Rin grunts]
Archer!
‐ What are you doing?
‐ [groaning]
[Shirou] Tohsaka!
[gasping]
Ah!
[whimpers]
[Saber] Archer,
where are you taking her?
[Archer] It seems I'm back
to square one.
This little skirmish wiped out
my mana,
and I'm no match for you now
that you're at your best.
Taking her
as my insurance policy.
If you value your master's life,
I suggest you stay out of this.
Don't come between me
and that boy's‐‐
Meet me out in the forest.
What's that?
There's a castle
where nobody lives anymore.
Shirou.
You've got a problem with me,
right?
We can talk all about it there,
'cause believe it or not,
I've got a problem with you,
too!
Hmm.
I suppose we wouldn't
be interrupted there.
I admire your resolve,
Shirou Emiya.
Shut up!
If you even lay a finger
on Tohsaka,
I'll kill you!
[Archer] I will guarantee
her safety for one day,
but don't dawdle.
Without a master,
I myself won't last much longer
than two.
If I haven't managed
to kill you by then,
I might have to start
dismembering my hostage
out of spite.
[groaning]
Shirou!
This is reckless.
You are not ready.
Even you cannot cast
the same projections as Archer.
Saber, I'm sorry.
I let her get captured.
[Saber] At the moment you are
in far more danger than she is.
Leave Rin to me.
You should go home
and try to rest.
[whooshing]
I take it everything is over,
kid?
‐ Not bad.
‐ [grunts]
Put down your sword, Saber.
It's fine.
Lancer helped us.
‐ He's on our side.
‐ Uh, what?
Are you telling me that Lancer
actually assisted you?
[Shirou] Yeah, he did,
so for now,
try not to fight him,
okay?
Explain yourself.
Why would you give aid
to Shirou and Rin?
Do you have some
ulterior motive?
Huh?
Of course I have
an ulterior motive.
I wouldn't o' helped if I didn't
expect something in return.
I see.
Then you must have
what you were after,
so begone.
I have no reason
to fight with you now.
[Lancer] Hey, kid.
You don't look
like everything went as planned.
What happened in there?
It's not good.
Archer took Tohsaka hostage.
[Rin] This hill
is his whole world.
His eternal reward
for a lifetime
of helping people.
The end of the line.
He seemed to embrace this world,
dying with a satisfied smile
across his lips.
Seriously,
how stupid is that?
Anyway...
That made me really furious.
He worked ceaselessly,
striving
for greatness beyond his nature,
finally buying this miracle
with his blood.
This victory should
have brought him happiness.
If he brings happiness
to many people,
then surely his own happiness
will at least equal what
he brought to others.
In fact,
it may even surpass it.
But alas,
that was not the reward
he received.
Instead he was given
a cruel fate,
one in which he was exploited
as a guardian
long after his death.
Why didn't I put it all together
before now?
Servants can be summoned
from any age without exception.
Heroic spirits
can be called upon
from the past,
the present,
or even from some far off
unrealized future.
There is no law,
no rule that states
a servant cannot be summoned
to the time and place
in which he once lived.
Just thinking about it
is frustrating.
I mean,
neither one can be saved.
Not the one looking back
on his past,
nor the one looking
to his future.
All he can do is grieve
for what
will inevitably happen to him.
I already know what becomes
of the fool who tries
to live his life
in service to others.
He sacrificed everything,
even his own afterlife.
Death could not prevent him
from helping others.
It was more
than he'd ever dreamed of.
He was helpless in life
because he was weak,
but so convinced was he that he
could avert any tragedy
as a heroic spirit
that he sold away
the peace death would
have granted him.
He believed he
could save thousands of lives‐‐
tens of thousands.
But soon even that hope
was betrayed.
Only one thing can be said
of him.
His life such as it was
brought him constant betrayal.
And in the end,
he was betrayed even by
the one ideal he
had believed in.
[gasps]
[grunts]
What are you trying to pull,
Archer?
[scoffs]
You know Shirou
would come anyway
whether I was here or not.
You of all people should
have realized that.
Maybe so.
But it would be inconvenient
for you to be there
when he does.
I see.
So you intend to kill Shirou
no matter what.
Is that right?
[Archer] Right.
Anybody that naive
should be put down
before it's too late.
Hmm.
I know how naive he can be.
I've seen it firsthand
many times.
[grunts]
But that's part of his charm.
It's what makes him the sweet,
kindhearted person he is.
[Rin] And I want him
to stay that way.
It's comforting
to know that someone
like him can exist.
But what about you, Archer?
After all the things
you've done,
you suddenly think it's wrong
to waive one's idealism
in people's faces?
Over and over again,
you fought for others.
Over and over,
you were betrayed.
you were forced
to clean up messes humans made.
Is that it?
Is that what made you
just give up on humanity?
Huh?
Answer me!
[Archer scoffs]
[Rin] "I am the bone
of my sword."
The incantation you were given
the day that you became
a heroic spirit."
Even a curse should never be
that cruel.
I don't agree
with a single thing
that's happened in your life.
Not the messed up way you live,
not the people who didn't
help you when you needed it.
And I don't know what
to do with all that.
But I can't agree with it.
[Shinji] Well, well.
‐ [both grunting]
‐ [Shinji] What a surprise.
I was skeptical at first
but here you are,
in the flesh.
[chuckles]
Shinji?
[Archer] A guest.
I came here because I thought
we wouldn't be interrupted.
Easy now.
Don't go pulling any
of your famous funny business.
I didn't come all
the way here for you.
[Shinji] Fair warning, though.
Thinking you can take
me on would be
the last mistake
you'd ever make.
[laughs]
You're scared, aren't you?
Well, this guy's a servant
who did away with Berserker
without even breaking a sweat.
I guess I'd be pretty scared,
too, if I were you.
[Archer] You want Rin.
Is that it?
Uh, huh?
Yeah, of course I do.
Then you'll wait until
my business is done.
You can have her once I finish
with Shirou Emiya.
[Archer] If you refuse,
I'll be forced to eliminate
both you and your servant.
Will you?
Now hold on, Gilgamesh.
It's all right.
Let's take Archer here
at his word.
You and I will stay here
and keep Tohsaka safe
until he's taken care of Emiya.
Oh, guess that means
she's already as good as mine,
and if she's mine,
I can do what I want to her.
She will remain unharmed
for now,
as per my agreement with Shirou,
but that will expire at dawn.
[Archer] When day breaks,
you are free to do
with her as you will.
[laughing]
Did you hear that, Tohsaka?
[Shinji] Your devoted servant
just sold his own master
down the river!
Faker.
[groans]
[Saber] Are you awake?
Good morning.
Hey.
My headache's finally gone,
and so's the fatigue.
[Shirou] My mana's still
pretty low,
but I don't think
my magic circuits
are burned out,
so that's good.
[Saber] Shirou.
Rin is my master now,
and rescuing her
is my sacred duty.
I will stop Archer myself.
As for you‐‐
[Shirou]
You've got it backwards.
[gasps]
[Shirou] Just leave Archer
to me.
You cannot do that, Shirou.
After all,
Archer is‐‐
Yeah, I know.
I've probably known
since we met.
So you don't have
to explain it to me.
And that's why he has
to pay for his actions.
I've got to end this.
Even if it kills me,
it has to stop.
[Shirou] So please,
let me fight Archer.
And when I do,
I want you to stay out
of it no matter what.
If that is truly what you want,
I will abide by your request.
I swore an oath that my body
would be your shield.
But I will observe until
the fight is decided.
Thank you.
I mean it.
[gasps]
You do have better things
to do, don't you?
[Lancer] I've changed my mind.
The little lady's in trouble,
right?
Maybe I should tag along
for a while.
I'd sleep easier that way.
What did you and Rin do
to secure his allegiance?
What manner
of spell did you use?
[grunts]
[exhales sharply]
[Kalafina's "Ring Your Bell"]
♪♪ ♪♪
[Kalafina singing in Japanese]
♪♪ Ring your bell ♪♪
[distant sirens blaring]
53 out cold.
Ryuudou Temple in Miyama.
All of them are male.
[Man] Low blood pressure,
difficulty breathing,
same symptoms
as those coma cases.
Send 31 to New City's
General Hospital
and 15 to Central.
The rest will have to go
to the community hospital.
[scoffs]